doc/development.rst, before:

Development
===========

If you find the openpyxl project intriguing and want to contribute a new awesome feature, fix a nasty bug or improve the documentation this section will guide you in setting up your development environment.

We will look into the coding standards and version control system workflows used, as well as cloning the openpyxl code to your local machine, setting up a virtual Python environment, running tests and building the documentation.


Getting the source
------------------

The source code of openpyxl is hosted on `BitBucket <https://bitbucket.org/openpyxl/openpyxl>`_ as a Mercurial project which you can download using e.g. the GUI client `SourceTree <http://www.sourcetreeapp.com>`_ by Atlassian. If you prefer working with the command line you can use the following:

.. parsed-literal::

    $ hg clone \https://bitbucket.org/openpyxl/openpyxl
    $ hg up |version|

After that you should create a virtual environment using :code:`virtualenv` and install the project requirements and the project itself:

.. parsed-literal::

    $ cd openpyxl
    $ virtualenv openpyxl-env

Activate the environment using:

.. parsed-literal::

    $ source bin/activate  # or ./openpyxl-env/Scripts/activate on Windows

Install the dependecies and the package itself using:

.. parsed-literal::

    (openpyxl-env) $ pip install -U -r requirements.txt
    (openpyxl-env) $ pip install -e .


Running tests
-------------

Note that contributions to the project without tests will **not** be accepted.

We use :code:`pytest` as the test runner with :code:`pytest-cov` for coverage information and
:code:`pytest-flakes` for static code analysis.

To run all the tests you need to either execute:

.. parsed-literal::

    (openpxyl-env) $ pytest -xrf openpyxl  # the flags will stop testing at the first error

Or use :code:`tox` to run the tests on different Python versions and configurations:

.. parsed-literal::

    (openpxyl-env) $ tox openpyxl


Coverage
++++++++

The goal is 100 % coverage for unit tests - data types and utility functions.
Coverage information can be obtained using

 :code:`py.test --cov openpyxl`


Organisation
++++++++++++

Tests should be preferably at package / module level e.g openpyxl/cell. This
makes testing and getting statistics for code under development easier:

 :code:`py.test --cov openpyxl/cell openpyxl/cell`


Checking XML
++++++++++++

Use the :code:`openpyxl.tests.helper.compare_xml` function to compare
generated and expected fragments of XML.


Schema validation
+++++++++++++++++

When working on code to generate XML it is possible to validate that the
generated XML conforms to the published specification. Note, this won't
necessarily guarantee that everything is fine but is preferable to reverse
engineering!


Microsoft Tools
+++++++++++++++

Along with the SDK, Microsoft also has a `"Productivity Tool"
<http://www.microsoft.com/en-us/download/details.aspx?id=30425>`_ for working
with Office OpenXML.

This allows you to quickly inspect or compare whole Excel files.
Unfortunately, validation errors contain many false positives. The tool also
contain links to the specification and implementers' notes.


What is supported
------------------

The primary aim of openpyxl is to support reading and writing Microsoft Excel
2010 files. Where possible support for files generated by other libraries or
programs is available but this is not guaranteed.


Supporting different Python versions
------------------------------------

We have a small library of utility functions to support development for
Python 2 and 3. This is openpyxl.compat for Python and openpyxl.xml for XML
functions.


Coding style
------------

Use PEP-8 except when implementing attributes for roundtripping but always
use Python data conventions (boolean, None, etc.) Note exceptions in
docstrings.


Specification
-------------

The file specification for OOXML was released jointly as `ECMA 376
<http://www.ecma-international.org/publications/standards/Ecma-376.htm>`_ and
`ISO 29500 <http://standards.iso.org/ittf/PubliclyAvailableStandards/index.html>`_.


Contributing
------------

Contributions in the form of pull requests are always welcome. Don't forget
to add yourself to the list of authors!


Branch naming convention
------------------------

We use a "major.minor.patch" numbering system, ie. |release|. Development
branches are named after "major.minor" releases. In general, API change will
only happen major releases but there will be exceptions. Always communicate
API changes to the mailing list before making them. If you are changing an
API try and an implement a fallback (with deprecation warning) for the old
behaviour.

The "default branch" is used for releases and always has changes from a
development branch merged in. It should never be the target for a pull
request.


Pull Requests
-------------

Pull requests should be submitted to the current, unreleased development
branch. Eg. if the current release is |release|, pull requests should be made
to the |version| branch. Exceptions are bug fixes to released versions which
should be made to the relevant release branch and merged upstream into
development.

Please use tox to test code for different submissions **before** making a
pull request. This is especially important for picking up problems across
Python versions.


Documentation
+++++++++++++

Remember to update the documentation when adding or changing features. Check
that documentation is syntactically correct.

:code:`tox -e doc`


Benchmarking
------------

Benchmarking and profiling are ongoing tasks. Contributions to these are very
welcome as we know there is a lot to do.


Memory Use
++++++++++

There is a tox profile for long-running memory benchmarks using the
`memory_utils` package.

:code:`tox -e memory`


Pympler
+++++++

As openpyxl does not include any internal memory benchmarking tools, the
python *pympler* package was used during the testing of styles to profile the
memory usage in :code:`openpyxl.reader.excel.read_style_table()`::

    # in openpyxl/reader/style.py
    from pympler import muppy, summary

    def read_style_table(xml_source):
      ...
      if cell_xfs is not None:  # ~ line 47
          initialState = summary.summarize(muppy.get_objects())  # Capture the initial state
          for index, cell_xfs_node in enumerate(cell_xfs_nodes):
             ...
             table[index] = new_style
          finalState = summary.summarize(muppy.get_objects())  # Capture the final state
          diff = summary.get_diff(initialState, finalState)  # Compare
          summary.print_(diff)


:code:`pympler.summary.print_()` prints to the console a report of object
memory usage, allowing the comparison of different methods and examination of
memory usage. A useful future development would be to construct a
benchmarking package to measure the performance of different components.

Commit message:

Adding note for upstream reference
--HG--
branch : 2.6

doc/development.rst, after:

Development
===========

If you find the openpyxl project intriguing and want to contribute a new awesome feature, fix a nasty bug or improve the documentation this section will guide you in setting up your development environment.

We will look into the coding standards and version control system workflows used, as well as cloning the openpyxl code to your local machine, setting up a virtual Python environment, running tests and building the documentation.


Getting the source
------------------

The source code of openpyxl is hosted on `BitBucket <https://bitbucket.org/openpyxl/openpyxl>`_ as a Mercurial project which you can download using e.g. the GUI client `SourceTree <http://www.sourcetreeapp.com>`_ by Atlassian. If you prefer working with the command line you can use the following:

.. parsed-literal::

    $ hg clone \https://bitbucket.org/openpyxl/openpyxl
    $ hg up |version|

It is worthwhile to note that you can add an upstream remote reference to the original repository to update your fork with the latest changes, by adding to the :code:`./hg/hgrc` file the following:

.. parsed-literal::

    [paths]
    default = ...
    master = https://bitbucket.org/openpyxl/openpyxl

You can then grab any new changes using:

.. parsed-literal::

    $ hg pull master

After that you should create a virtual environment using :code:`virtualenv` and install the project requirements and the project itself:

.. parsed-literal::

    $ cd openpyxl
    $ virtualenv openpyxl-env

Activate the environment using:

.. parsed-literal::

    $ source bin/activate  # or ./openpyxl-env/Scripts/activate on Windows

Install the dependecies and the package itself using:

.. parsed-literal::

    (openpyxl-env) $ pip install -U -r requirements.txt
    (openpyxl-env) $ pip install -e .


Running tests
-------------

Note that contributions to the project without tests will **not** be accepted.

We use :code:`pytest` as the test runner with :code:`pytest-cov` for coverage information and
:code:`pytest-flakes` for static code analysis.

To run all the tests you need to either execute:

.. parsed-literal::

    (openpxyl-env) $ pytest -xrf openpyxl  # the flags will stop testing at the first error

Or use :code:`tox` to run the tests on different Python versions and configurations:

.. parsed-literal::

    (openpxyl-env) $ tox openpyxl


Coverage
++++++++

The goal is 100 % coverage for unit tests - data types and utility functions.
Coverage information can be obtained using

 :code:`py.test --cov openpyxl`


Organisation
++++++++++++

Tests should be preferably at package / module level e.g openpyxl/cell. This
makes testing and getting statistics for code under development easier:

 :code:`py.test --cov openpyxl/cell openpyxl/cell`


Checking XML
++++++++++++

Use the :code:`openpyxl.tests.helper.compare_xml` function to compare
generated and expected fragments of XML.


Schema validation
+++++++++++++++++

When working on code to generate XML it is possible to validate that the
generated XML conforms to the published specification. Note, this won't
necessarily guarantee that everything is fine but is preferable to reverse
engineering!


Microsoft Tools
+++++++++++++++

Along with the SDK, Microsoft also has a `"Productivity Tool"
<http://www.microsoft.com/en-us/download/details.aspx?id=30425>`_ for working
with Office OpenXML.

This allows you to quickly inspect or compare whole Excel files.
Unfortunately, validation errors contain many false positives. The tool also
contain links to the specification and implementers' notes.


What is supported
------------------

The primary aim of openpyxl is to support reading and writing Microsoft Excel
2010 files. Where possible support for files generated by other libraries or
programs is available but this is not guaranteed.


Supporting different Python versions
------------------------------------

We have a small library of utility functions to support development for
Python 2 and 3. This is openpyxl.compat for Python and openpyxl.xml for XML
functions.


Coding style
------------

Use PEP-8 except when implementing attributes for roundtripping but always
use Python data conventions (boolean, None, etc.) Note exceptions in
docstrings.


Specification
-------------

The file specification for OOXML was released jointly as `ECMA 376
<http://www.ecma-international.org/publications/standards/Ecma-376.htm>`_ and
`ISO 29500 <http://standards.iso.org/ittf/PubliclyAvailableStandards/index.html>`_.


Contributing
------------

Contributions in the form of pull requests are always welcome. Don't forget
to add yourself to the list of authors!


Branch naming convention
------------------------

We use a "major.minor.patch" numbering system, ie. |release|. Development
branches are named after "major.minor" releases. In general, API change will
only happen major releases but there will be exceptions. Always communicate
API changes to the mailing list before making them. If you are changing an
API try and an implement a fallback (with deprecation warning) for the old
behaviour.

The "default branch" is used for releases and always has changes from a
development branch merged in. It should never be the target for a pull
request.


Pull Requests
-------------

Pull requests should be submitted to the current, unreleased development
branch. Eg. if the current release is |release|, pull requests should be made
to the |version| branch. Exceptions are bug fixes to released versions which
should be made to the relevant release branch and merged upstream into
development.

Please use tox to test code for different submissions **before** making a
pull request. This is especially important for picking up problems across
Python versions.


Documentation
+++++++++++++

Remember to update the documentation when adding or changing features. Check
that documentation is syntactically correct.

:code:`tox -e doc`


Benchmarking
------------

Benchmarking and profiling are ongoing tasks. Contributions to these are very
welcome as we know there is a lot to do.


Memory Use
++++++++++

There is a tox profile for long-running memory benchmarks using the
`memory_utils` package.

:code:`tox -e memory`


Pympler
+++++++

As openpyxl does not include any internal memory benchmarking tools, the
python *pympler* package was used during the testing of styles to profile the
memory usage in :code:`openpyxl.reader.excel.read_style_table()`::

    # in openpyxl/reader/style.py
    from pympler import muppy, summary

    def read_style_table(xml_source):
      ...
      if cell_xfs is not None:  # ~ line 47
          initialState = summary.summarize(muppy.get_objects())  # Capture the initial state
          for index, cell_xfs_node in enumerate(cell_xfs_nodes):
             ...
             table[index] = new_style
          finalState = summary.summarize(muppy.get_objects())  # Capture the final state
          diff = summary.get_diff(initialState, finalState)  # Compare
          summary.print_(diff)


:code:`pympler.summary.print_()` prints to the console a report of object
memory usage, allowing the comparison of different methods and examination of
memory usage. A useful future development would be to construct a
benchmarking package to measure the performance of different components.
